# Cute Kitties and Where to Find Them

We’re all familiar with currency exchanges. They come in various forms and are often the medium people resort to for trading one currency to another when speculating or traveling to a new country. 

Though currency exchange has its roots in ancient time (e.g., the Byzantine government maintained a monopoly on and performed currency exchange), modern-day exchange started during the 15th century when the Italian banking family Medici opened banks to exchange currencies in foreign nations. There are ledgers dating back to 1704 in Amsterdam that show the existence of an active [Forex market](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/forex/f/forex-market.asp). Nowadays, [fiat] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiat_money) exchanges are often performed through banks, forex brokers, and online.

With the advent of CryptoAssets, the world witnessed an abundance of new exchanges for exchanging fiat currencies to CryptoAssets or swapping one CryptoAsset to another. Some of these exchanges (i.e., Binance, Coinbase) are centralized, while others (i.e., IDEX, Waves) are decentralized. While each approach has its limitation and fallibilities, one of the concerns in the world of CryptoAssets has been the vulnerability of token ownership and exchange as a result of centralization, vulnerabilities such as censorship and hacking. At the same time, decentralized exchanges have traditionally struggled with issues such as illiquidity and fees associated with requiring every new order or adjustment to go through the blockchain (on-chain transactions), resulting in slower transaction times and extra fees.

Projects such as [0x](https://0x.org/) have been able to provide a solution for some of the limitations of decentralized exchanges. By creating a standard protocol on the Ethereum blockchain, they allow third parties–relayers–to build decentralized exchanges that host orders off-chain and only bring them on-chain to settle the order. As a result, it’s an ideal protocol for platforms such as video games that exchange digital collectibles and other CryptoItems or digital artists to incorporate into their ecosystem.

A collectible is an item that is often unique in characteristics and valued by collectors. The history of collecting special items date back to ancient history, and it’s also witnessed in other animals, such as Bowerbirds. Modern day collectors often collect items for their future value, but many do it as a hobby. Collecting cigarette cards was one of the earlier objects that were manufactured to be a collectible, then came the era of sports cards with popular players, and in the 90’s the different designs of Beanie Babies. Digital collectibles are the most recent form of valued items. Traditionally, it wasn’t possible to create them, because digital items were fungible or easily replicable, but thanks to a new [Ethereum Improvement Proposal (EIP)](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-1.md), it’s now possible to create non-fungible digital items.

The Ethereum foundation has made it easy for anyone to suggest modifications to Ethereum's protocol. Anyone wanting to change or add a feature to the protocol can do so through submitting an EIP. If an EIP is approved by the community, it’s incorporated into the protocol. One of these EIPs is EIP-721, which allows for the creation of Non-fungible Tokens (NFTs)–an authentic digital scarcity that is verifiable within the network without needing any intermediaries, such as central exchanges. Here is a [basic declaration of an ERC-721 contract](https://gist.github.com/aunyks/2d148a77150247f6f9745286ff46fc53#file-erc721-definitions-sol):
 

For a full overview of the fields and what they mean, read Gerald Nash’s essay on  [The Anatomy of ERC-721](https://medium.com/crypto-currently/the-anatomy-of-erc721-e9db77abfc24). But here’s a brief overview of the main functions and events:

[comment]: # (I am trying to embed this code here. Any idea how it's done? <script src="https://gist.github.com/aunyks/2d148a77150247f6f9745286ff46fc53.js"></script>)

* name: This function is the full name of your token (e.g., MountainGoatMutineer)
* symbol: This function is an abbreviation for your token (e.g., MGM)
* totalSupply: This function returns the number of coins available on the ledger
* balanceOf: This function shows how many tokens are on a particular address
* ownerOf: This function returns the address of a token’s owner
* approve: This function grants authority to another entity to transfer tokens on behalf of the owner
* takeOwnership: This function acts like a withdraw function. It allows a new owner to withdraw tokens from another account and into their account.
* transfer: This allows the owner of a token to transfer their token to another user.
* tokenOfOwnerByIndex: Though optional, this function allows users to retrieve individual tokens by its index in the list of tokens they own
* tokenMetadata: Though optional, this function allows us to find information on an NFT (e.g., through an HTTP link or IPFS hash)	
* Transfer: This event broadcasts the sending and receiving addresses, and the token ID that was transferred
* Approval: This event fires whenever another user is approved to take ownership of a token

In the words of the creators, the rationale for ERC-721 is that:

“There are many proposed uses of Ethereum smart contracts that depend on tracking distinguishable assets. Examples of existing or planned NFTs are LAND in Decentraland, the eponymous punks in CryptoPunks, and in-game items using systems like DMarket or EnjinCoin. Future uses include tracking real-world assets, like real-estate (as envisioned by companies like Ubitquity or Propy. It is critical in each of these cases that these items are not "lumped together" as numbers in a ledger, but instead each asset must have its ownership individually and atomically tracked.” 

You might already be familiar with the game [CryptoKitties](https://www.cryptokitties.co/) where people can buy a unique Kittie with some Ether–the native currency of the Ethereum protocol. Each Kittie is an NFT–meaning that each Kittie is unique in shape, characteristics, and thus value.

Ideally, those who want to buy, sell, or exchange NFTs should be able to do so without relying on a central exchange to perform their transactions on. In addition to problems such as censorship and hacking, caused by centralization, people might want to exchange NFTs tens of times a year–buying, selling, exchanging, and so forth–having intermediaries that take a cut each time a trade occurs wouldn’t be as fluid as a peer-to-peer asset trading experience. Another advantage offered by decentralization is that if a hostile state decides to impose its power on exchanges that operate in its country, it’d be easy for them to impose it on a centralized exchange, but not on a decentralized one. By taking intermediaries out of the picture, we can solve the vulnerability of centralization and remove the rent-seeker in the middle. In practice, a digital game with various characters can use the 0x protocol to create an exchange that allows their gamers to trade with one another directly, and even sell them on the exchange for Ether.

To give you an example, the [Origin project has partnered with Dig Star](https://medium.com/originprotocol/origin-metaps-to-build-a-decentralized-marketplace-for-non-fungible-tokens-nfts-387e5d29c437)–a character mining game built on Ethereum to do something relatively similar. Anyone can download the mining game from the app store and exchange digital characters on the Origin exchange. In the game, there is a mineral called “Cp” which can only be mined by creatures that are traded on the exchange. In addition to being able to trade these characters, gamers can sell the minerals they mine with them for Ether on the same ecosystem. Another game called, [God’s Unchained]( https://godsunchained.com/), is using 0x to sell players unique cards, including limited edition ones, while they’re on presale. As a result of the cards complying with ERC-721, players can prove the rarity of their cards, and even trade them for Ether later down the road.

Historically, game publishers were a centralized authority that owned the objects players bought on the game, but that’s no longer the case. With NFTs, players can own the token and if the code permits take it from one game to another. If the game shuts down, the players will still have their token. 0x makes it possible to do transfers peer-to-peer, the same way that as kids many of us traded baseball cards with our friend, no more strict digital-rights-management policies.

While ERC-721 allows for an entirely new class of assets to exist and give collectors the opportunity to collect digital items, it has some limitation as well. For this reason, developers have proposed ERC-1155, the topic for an upcoming article. If there a specific topic you’re interested in learning about feel free to tweet at [DAppProletariat](https://twitter.com/DAppProletariat).

One final Note: There are plenty of exciting developments taking place on the Ethereum ecosystem, and we’d be eager to see more people coming onboard to help us “buidl.” Not sure where to start? [ConsenSys Academy](https://consensys.net/academy/) has courses and resources for people with a wide variety of backgrounds and interests.
